README.md, before:

# pscan_query

Pharmacoscan query tool allows for fast querying of pharmacoscan annot library files. 

## Installation
Requirements:
- Python >= 3.6

Dependencies:
- pandas
- requests
- openpyxl

If dependencies are not already preinstalled, pscan_query will attempt to install these on the first run with user permission.

Installation can be done by either cloning the repository as shown below or by downloading the files into a directory
```sh
git clone https://github.com/anh151/pscan_query 
cd pscan_query  
```

## Running

```
Arguments:
  -f, --file       Path to pharmacoscan file input
  -g, --gene       Gene to search for in the file.
  -r, --rsid       rsID to search for in the file. Format accepted is rs1234
  -p, --position   Position in chromosome to search for. Format accepted is "123456789".
  -o, --output     Path to output file as a .csv.
```

Pharmacoscan input file is supplied with the tool. If a different file needs to be used, this can be passed in via the -f option.

One of -g, -r, or -p must be supplied.
 
Default output file will be the current working directory with file name output.csv.

Examples:

```sh
python3 pscan_query.py -g CYP2C19 -o /path/to/directory/cyp2c19_output.csv
```
```sh
python3 pscan_query.py -g CYP2C19 -p 123456789 -o /path/to/directory/cyp2c19_output.csv
```
```sh
python3 pscan_query.py -g CYP2C19 -p rs12345 -o /path/to/directory/cyp2c19_output.csv
```

Commit message:

Updated readme, offloaded a lot of functions and methods to utils from pscan_query

README.md, after:

# pscan_query

Pharmacoscan query tool allows for fast querying of pharmacoscan annot library files. 

## Installation
Requirements:
- Python >= 3.6

Dependencies:
- pandas==1.3.2
- requests==2.22.0
- dash==1.21.0 (only if using the GUI)
- openpyxl==3.0.7


If dependencies are not already preinstalled, pscan_query will attempt to install these on the first run with user permission.

Installation can be done by either cloning the repository as shown below or by downloading the files into a directory
```sh
git clone https://github.com/anh151/pscan_query 
cd pscan_query  
```

## Running

This query tool can be run using two different methods. The first method is using the command line interface shown in method 1. The second option is using the GUI provided. Note that method two does have an additional dependency of `dash`. 

### Method 1 Command Line Interface:

```
Arguments:
  -f, --file       Path to pharmacoscan file input
  -g, --gene       Gene to search for in the file.
  -r, --rsid       rsID to search for in the file. Format accepted is rs1234
  -p, --position   Position in chromosome to search for. Format accepted is "123456789".
  -o, --output     Path to output file as a .csv.
```

Pharmacoscan input file is supplied with the tool. If a different file needs to be used, this can be passed in via the -f option.

One of -g, -r, or -p must be supplied.
 
Default output file will be the current working directory with file name output.csv.

Examples:

```sh
python3 pscan_query.py -g CYP2C19 -o /path/to/directory/cyp2c19_output.csv
```
```sh
python3 pscan_query.py -g CYP2C19 -p 123456789 -o /path/to/directory/cyp2c19_output.csv
```
```sh
python3 pscan_query.py -g CYP2C19 -p rs12345 -o /path/to/directory/cyp2c19_output.csv
```

### Method 2 GUI:

The GUI can be launched by running the app.py file. If the required libraries are not installed, the app will attempt to install them with user permission.

Future images in progress.
